---
title: "DOI"
description: "Rclone docs for DOI"
versionIntroduced: "?"
---

# {{< icon "fa fa-building-columns" >}} DOI

Paths are specified as `remote:path`

Paths may be as deep as required, e.g. `remote:directory/subdirectory`.

{{< rem autogenerated options start" - DO NOT EDIT - instead edit fs.RegInfo in backend/doi/doi.go then run make backenddocs" >}}
### Standard options

Here are the Standard options specific to doi (DOI datasets).

#### --doi-doi

The DOI or the doi.org URL.

Properties:

- Config:      doi
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DOI_DOI
- Type:        string
- Required:    true

### Advanced options

Here are the Advanced options specific to doi (DOI datasets).

#### --doi-provider

DOI provider.

The DOI provider can be set when rclone does not automatically recognize a supported DOI provider.

Properties:

- Config:      provider
- Env Var:     RCLONE_DOI_PROVIDER
- Type:        string
- Required:    false
- Examples:
    - "auto"
        - Auto-detect provider
    - "zenodo"
        - Zenodo
    - "dataverse"
        - Dataverse
    - "invenio"
        - Invenio

## Backend commands

Here are the commands specific to the doi backend.

Run them with

    rclone backend COMMAND remote:

The help below will explain what arguments each command takes.

See the [backend](/commands/rclone_backend/) command for more
info on how to pass options and arguments.

These can be run on a running backend using the rc command
[backend/command](/rc/#backend-command).

### metadata

Show metadata about the DOI.

    rclone backend metadata remote: [options] [<arguments>+]

This command returns the JSON representation of the DOI.

    rclone backend medatadata doi: 

It returns a JSON object representing the DOI.


### title

Show the DOI title if available.

    rclone backend title remote: [options] [<arguments>+]

This command returns the DOI title.

    rclone backend title doi: 

It returns a string representing the DOI title.


### provider

Show the DOI provider.

    rclone backend provider remote: [options] [<arguments>+]

This command returns the DOI provider.

    rclone backend provider doi: 

This command can be used to update the rclone.conf file for faster operations with the doi backend
as auto-detection for the provider can be avoided.

It returns a string representing the DOI provider.


### set

Set command for updating the config parameters.

    rclone backend set remote: [options] [<arguments>+]

This set command can be used to update the config parameters
for a running doi backend.

Usage Examples:

    rclone backend set doi: [-o opt_name=opt_value] [-o opt_name2=opt_value2]
    rclone rc backend/command command=set fs=doi: [-o opt_name=opt_value] [-o opt_name2=opt_value2]
    rclone rc backend/command command=set fs=doi: -o doi=NEW_DOI

The option keys are named as they are in the config file.

This rebuilds the connection to the doi backend when it is called with
the new parameters. Only new parameters need be passed as the values
will default to those currently in use.

It doesn't return anything.


{{< rem autogenerated options stop >}}
